:warning: **This file is part of the "archive" &ndash; it could contain statements or terms which are incompatible with the main body of the specification and the identity and timing model.** :warning:

# Examples of `TVI`s

* An electrical waveform was generated by a microphone during a live TV show and sampled at 48kHz, 24-bits per sample. Two alternative `TDS`s were generated from the data: one with PCM `Data Object`s and one with FLAC `Data Object`s. Both `TDS`s were associated with the same `TVI`.
* Two devices were connected to a wind speed meter during a sailing race. One produced a `TDS` containing a `Data Object` every 10 seconds &ndash; each `Data Object` encoded the wind speed using JSON. The other produced a `TDS` containing a `Data Object` every 15 seconds &ndash; each `Data Object` encoded the wind speed using XML. Both `TDS`s were associated with the same `TVI`.
* A scene during a play has automated lighting. Two alternative `TDS`s were created to describe how the lights should change over time during the scene. During each production of this scene, either `TDS` can be used to automatically control the lighting. One `TDS` contains a `Data Object` every 0.5 seconds &ndash; each `Data Object` encodes (as XML) the list of lights that are on at the associated `Time Value`. The other `TDS` contains a `Data Object` only when a light changes state &ndash; each `Data Object` encodes (as XML) details of which light(s) has changed and the new state of the light (on/off). Both `TDS`s are associated with the same `TVI`.
* A jingle for a live radio show is created in an editing tool using a variety of pre-recorded music, speech, etc. The finished jingle is exported twice (creating two `TDS`s): as a WAV file (uncompressed audio) and as an MP3 file (compressed audio). Either file can be used when the jingle is required. Both of these `TDS`s are associated with the same `TVI`. 


