# Explanation &ndash;`Source`
[←Summary and Definitions ](2.1._Summary_and_Definitions.md) · [ Index↑ ](..) · [Explanation - Flow→](2.3._Explanation_-_Flow.md)

*Please ensure you have read the [Summary and Definitions](2.1._Summary_and_Definitions.md) before considering the further detail covered by this page.*

## Understanding the `Source` Entity

The intention is that a `Source` (identified by a `Source` ID) provides an easy and convenient way to refer to a time-based signal or content in a manner that is agnostic to the means used to express it and the exact quality / accuracy of the expression. This use of the term `Source` should not be confused with the casual use of the word source to refer to multiple media signals relevant to an 'outside source' or similar (see [the Appendix](4.0._Appendix_-_Commentary.md#use-of-the-terms-source-and-flow)).

It is useful to appreciate that a `Source` represents what its member `Flow`s have in common &ndash; that is, the time-based data that they all represent. The `Source` entity allows the content to be referred to without needing to refer to a specific `Flow`. In some scenarios it might be helpful to think of the `Source` as identifying the result of running a particular query on the ancestry relationships associated with a collection of `Flow`s.

The `Source` entity has been defined so that a `Source` is practically useful and aids in interoperability. As a result, a `Source` ID can be:

* used in establishing a clear "contract" between devices, users, etc. Example use case:

  > AS A user of a music API I NEED TO discover the different representations of a recording available SO THAT I can choose the most practical representation for the device I am using at the time.

* used as a means to identify a number of `Flow`s that are considered to be equivalent in terms of the time-based content they are conveying. This allows common creative / content-level processing actions to be defined and then applied across all of these `Flow`s. Example use case:

  > AS A person editing a video programme I NEED TO express my edit decisions SO THAT whichever representations of the programme are generated it will appear as I intended (I accept that these representations might be of different qualities for practical reasons).

* assigned / managed automatically in many common scenarios. Example use case:

  > AS A device that creates `Flow`s I NEED TO know how to assign each `Flow` to a `Source` SO THAT users are able to discover the `Flow`s that they require.

A `Source` will sometimes be associated with a particular physical device but this is *not* necessarily the case. Consider the following two scenarios:

* A video camera produces both an uncompressed `Flow` and a compressed `Flow`.
* A video camera produces just an uncompressed `Flow` which is then transcoded in a separate device to produce a compressed `Flow`.

In each scenario the two `Flow`s are expressions of a single `Source` &ndash; the physical device that produced each `Flow` is not relevant from a content processing perspective. It is already possible to identify the device that created a `Flow` using that device's own identity (see AMWA IS-04).

It is important to understand that a `Source` cannot be used to describe arbitrary similarities between `Flow`s: all `Flow`s that are expressions of a `Source` must "appear the same" when rendered / decoded (other than differences in quality / accuracy). Additional `Flow`s that are similar but do not meet this constraint will need to be associated with a different `Source`; other mechanisms will then be needed to describe the similarity between these `Source`s.

Guidance on how `Source`s can be applied to the handling of video and audio can be found in [3.0. Practical Guidance for Media](3.0._Practical_Guidance_for_Media.md)


## Notes on the Formal Definition of `Source`

* All `Flow`s that are expressions of a `Source` must "appear the same" when rendered / decoded (other than differences in quality / accuracy). This constraint means, for example, that the `Flow`s in a `Source` can use different video codecs. However, differences that result in a variation in the time-based data are not permitted unless these are only differences in "quality" (for example, due to lossy compression). Relating it back to the "person editing a video programme" use case listed above: none of the `Flow`s belonging to a `Source` introduce changes that a user of a video editing tool would find surprising; none of the changes relate to properties or operations that the user would change for creative reasons.
* There is no constraint that all `Flow`s satisfying these conditions _must_ be part of the same `Source` &ndash; this constraint would not be practical to enforce. However, clearly a `Source` is most useful if all eligible `Flow`s *are* members (for example, it is generally better if one `Source` is used rather than two if this is permitted by the scenario and by the definition of `Source`).
* A `Source` places no constraint on the `Time Value`s used in a `Flow`. For example, there might be `Flow`s associated with a `Source` that use different video sample rates. And note that for some audio codecs the "sample rate" is only decided upon decode anyway.
* A `Source` can have zero `Flow`s. This could be practically useful because a `Source` might be created before its member `Flow`s; when this `Source` is initially created there could be a description of the nature of the `Flow`s that it will contain. A `Source` can also have meaning / utility completely independently of its `Flow` members.
* All of the `Flow`s associated with a `Source` use the same `Time Context`. This means that it makes sense to consider querying a `Source` with a `Time Value` or range of `Time Value`s &ndash; this could be useful, for example, in designing an API that allows a `Source` to be queried by time range without consideration of the video codecs of the associated `Flow`s.

## Commentary on How `Source` is Defined

Broader definitions of `Source` were considered (that is, definitions that would permit more `Flow`s to be members) but these were found to be problematic when analysing against the intended purpose of a `Source`.

For example:

* If greater changes are permitted to the content represented by `Flow`s within a `Source` (such as converting a colour image to monochrome or allowing a crop of a video) then it becomes more difficult to define the boundary of a `Source`. A `Source` becomes less reliable as a contract for interoperability.
* It would be possible to say that any `Flow` can be a member of a `Source` as long as the manner in which its content differs is signalled in the technical metadata of the `Flow`. However, this technical metadata could potentially be very complex (to support the description of very complex content alterations) and not supported by all devices. Also, when a device is creating a `Flow` and deciding which `Source` it should belong to it is probably unaware of the technical metadata that will be made available along with that `Flow` later on (for example, the `Flow` might be available through a number of different APIs).

[←Summary and Definitions ](2.1._Summary_and_Definitions.md) · [ Index↑ ](..) · [Explanation - Flow→](2.3._Explanation_-_Flow.md)
